# Migrating from `dea_tools`

The `eo-tides` package contains functions that were previously available in the [`Digital Earth Australia Notebooks and Tools` repository](https://github.com/GeoscienceAustralia/dea-notebooks/).
To migrate your code from DEA Tools to `eo-tides`, please be aware of the following breaking changes:

## Breaking changes

### "tide_m" renamed to "tide_height"

The default output tide heights column generated by the `model_tides` function and the `xarray.DataArray` outputs generated by `tag_tides` and `pixel_tides` have been renamed from `tide_m` to `tide_height`.
This more clearly describes the data, particularly when used in combination with `output_units="cm"` or `output_units="mm"` which returns tide heights in non-metre units.

!!! tip "Action required"

    Update any references of `tide_m` to `tide_height`

### Default model changed to "EOT20"

The default tide model has been changed from "FES2014" to the open source "EOT20" [Empirical Ocean Tide tide model (CC BY 4.0)](https://doi.org/10.17882/79489):

> Hart-Davis Michael, Piccioni Gaia, Dettmering Denise, Schwatke Christian, Passaro Marcello, Seitz Florian (2021). EOT20 - A global Empirical Ocean Tide model from multi-mission satellite altimetry. SEANOE. <https://doi.org/10.17882/79489>

Note that this change in default is primarily due to the permissive license of this model; the choice of optimal model will vary by study area and application.

!!! tip "Action required"

    To use FES2014, set `model="FES2014"` instead of leaving the default `model=None`.

### `tidal_tag` renamed to `tag_tides`

Renamed for consistency with `model_tides` and `pixel_tides`.

!!! tip "Action required"

    Update references to `tidal_tag` to `tag_tides`.

### Tide model directory environment variable updated

The `DEA_TOOLS_TIDE_MODELS` environmental variable has been renamed to `EO_TIDES_TIDE_MODELS`.

!!! tip "Action required"

    Set the `EO_TIDES_TIDE_MODELS` environment variable instead of `DEA_TOOLS_TIDE_MODELS`.

### Error raised if both `directory` parameter and environment variable are missing

Previously, tide modelling functions used a fall-back tide modelling directory (`/var/share/tide_models`) if both the `directory` parameter and the tide model directory environment variable were absent. This fall-back has been removed, and an error will now be raised if no tide model directory is specified.

!!! tip "Action required"

    Ensure that either the `directory` parameter or the `EO_TIDES_TIDE_MODELS` environment variable are provided.
